Throughout this course, you have
learned about fundamental concepts and
applied techniques across
the generative AI Project Lifecycle.
LLM powered applications
are still in their infancy, and
researchers are announcing
new techniques or
strategies to improve performance and
reliability almost every day.
This course can only include what is known
or understood at the time of launch,
but we are confident this field
will continue to evolve quickly.
Let's highlight a few
areas of active research.
With the growth of AI comes
the recognition that we must all
use it responsibly.
I've invited my AWS colleague, Dr. Nashlie
Sephus, to discuss responsible AI with me,
specifically in the context of generative
AI with large language models.
Dr. Nashlie Sephus is a principal
technology evangelist for
Amazon AI at AWS.
In this role, she focuses on fairness and
accuracy, as well as identifying and
mitigating potential biases
in Artificial Intelligence.
She formally led the Amazon Visual Search
team as an applied scientist in Atlanta.
Fun fact that team launched
the Visual Search for
placement parts on
the Amazon shopping app.
Nashlie, thanks so much for joining
me today to discuss responsible AI.
>> Thank you so much for having me.
>> Given what you see in the field right
now, what are some of the new risks and
challenges of responsible AI,
specifically in the context of generative
AI with large language models?
>> That's a great question because
there are lots of challenges.
Let's focus on three.
One is toxicity,
another are the hallucinations, and
a third is the intellectual
property issue.
>> All right, let's maybe start with
the first one you mentioned, toxicity.
Can you describe the challenge
in a little bit more detail?
And do you have any advice how
practitioners, how can I mitigate it?
>> Sure, so toxicity at its core,
meaning toxic, implies certain language or
content that can be harmful or
discriminatory towards certain groups,
especially towards marginalized groups or
protected groups.
And so one thing that we can do
is start with the training data.
As you know,
that is the basis of every AI.
So you can start with
curating the training data.
You can also train guardrail
models to detect and
filter out any unwanted
content in the training data.
We also think about how
much human annotation is
involved when it comes to training
data and training annotations.
We want to make sure we provide enough
guidance to those annotators and
also have a very diverse group of
annotators that we're educating so
that they can understand how to pull out
certain data or how to mark certain data.
>> Makes sense and I think this is
a great point you just made that having
diversity among the human
annotators is really important.
Now, what about hallucinations?
>> So, Hallucinations, we think about
things that are simply not true,
or maybe something that seems like
it could be true, but it isn't.
It has no basis to it.
Well, this is exactly what it means in
this case with generative AI, due to
the nature of how we train large language
models or just neural networks in general.
A lot of times we don't know what
the model is actually learning and so
sometimes what the model will try to do
is fill gaps where it has missing data.
And oftentimes this leads to false
statements or the hallucinations.
And so one thing that we can do, we can
educate the users that this is the reality
of this technology and
add any disclaimer so
they can know that this is something
you should be able to look out for.
Also, you can augment large language
models with independent and
verified sources so you can double check
against the data that you're getting back.
You also want to make sure
that you develop methods for
attributing generated output to
particular pieces of training data so
that we can always trace back
to where we got the information.
And last but not least, we always want to
make sure we define what the intended use
case is for
versus what the unintended use case is.
Because again, due that these
things can happen hallucinations,
we want to make sure that
the user is aware and
transparent about how
these things operate.
>> All right, got it.
And I think education is really key here.
The third challenge you mentioned
was intellectual property.
What are your thoughts here?
>> So this is one that is going to
definitely have to be addressed
because it basically means where
people are using data that
is returned back from these
models in terms of AI.
And it can be plagiarizing
someone's previous work, or
you can have copyright issues for pieces
of work and content that already exists.
And so this is likely to be addressed
over time by a mixture of not just
the technologies, but also with
policymakers and other legal mechanisms.
Also, we want to incorporate a system of
governance to make sure
that every stakeholder is
doing what they need to do to prevent
this from happening in the near term.
There's a new concept of machine
unlearning in which protected content or
its effects on generative AI
outputs are reduced or removed.
So this is just one approach that is
very primitive in research today.
We can also do filtering or
blocking approaches that compare generated
content to protected content and
training data and suppress or
replace it if it's too similar
before presenting it to the user.
>> Got it.
Now, bringing it all together
from a project perspective,
what advice can you give practitioners?
How can I responsibly, build and
use generative AI models?
>> I'm glad you asked.
Defining use cases is very important.
The more specific,
the more narrow the better.
One example where we actually
use gentive AI to test and
evaluate the robustness of a system
is when it comes to face ID systems.
We actually use journeys of AI to
create different versions of a face.
For example, if I'm trying to test
a system that uses my face to unlock my
phone, I want to make sure I test it
with different versions of my face, with
long hair, with short hair, with glasses
on, with makeup on, with no makeup on.
And we can use gentle
AI to do this at scale.
And so this is an example of how we
use that to test the robustness.
Also, we want to make sure we access
the risk because each use case has its own
set of risks.
Some may be better or worse.
Also, evaluating the performance is truly
a function of the data and the system.
You may have the same system, but
when tested with different types of data,
may perform very well or
may perform very terribly.
Also, we want to make sure we
iterate over the AI lifecycle.
It's never a one and done.
Creating AI is a continuous Iterative
cycle where we want to implement
responsibility at the concept stage
as well as the deployment stage and
monitoring that feedback over time.
And last but not least, we want to
issue governance policies throughout
the lifecycle and accountability
measures for every stakeholder involved.
>> This is really helpful Nashlie and
I also like
the point you made about generative AI
potentially being part of the solution,
helping to create more diverse data.
Now before we wrap, and I know there's so
much going on right now in this field,
but what are some of the topics that
the research community is actively
working on right now
that you find exciting?
>> I think a few.
There are lots, which is why, again,
this field is unraveling every day.
There's water marking and
fingerprinting which are ways to
include almost like a stamp or
a signature in a piece of content or
data so that we can always trace back.
I think also creating models that
help determine if content was
created with gentle AI is also
a budding field of research.
And so again, it's a very exciting time.
I think the future of AI is accessible,
it's inclusive, and
I'm excited to see
innovation that's to come.
>> Me too.
Thanks so much Nashlie.
Thanks for sharing your thoughts and
practical advice on this
important topic of responsible AI.
>> Thanks again for having me.